Getting started guides (#85)
appuio/appuio-cloud-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/tutorials/getting-started/java-web.adoc

= Getting Started on {product} with the OpenShift Web Console using Java

// THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED
// DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY

> image:logos/java.svg[role="related thumb right",alt="Programming language logo",width=120,height=120] This tutorial explains how to run applications written in the Java programming language on {product} using the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer: This Java logo overlaps with the hr below. All other programming language icons are OK.

Author: Fixed

If you would rather use the command line, you might want to try the xref:tutorials/getting-started/java-terminal.adoc[Getting Started with Java on the Terminal] guide instead.

== Requirements

This tutorial doesn't require anything else than an {product} account and a modern web browser with JavaScript enabled.

== About the Application

To demo how to run applications written in the https://www.java.com/en/[Java] programming language on {product}, we will use a small demo application using the https://quarkus.io/[Quarkus Framework], bundled as a container thanks to its corresponding `Dockerfile`, and ready to be used on {product}.

The "Fortune in Java" application does one simple thing: when invoked on the browser, it returns a random number and a funny quote. That's all!

You can browse the full source code of this application on GitLab:

* https://gitlab.com/vshn/applications/fortune-java

== Step 1: Deploy a Container

Follow these steps to create an OpenShift project and deploy the application:

> . Login to {product} and open the "Developer" perspective.

Reviewer: Maybe add a hint where to find the possibility to login?

> . Create a new project called "fortune-java."

Reviewer: This might cause confusion when many interested customers are trying to create a project with the same name. Maybe add a prefix of suffix?

Author: Done

> . Switch to the "Developer" perspective.

Reviewer: Do I really have to switch to the "Developer" perspective a second time?

Author: Solved

. Click the "+Add" button on the sidebar.
. Select the "Container images" option.
+
IMPORTANT: As explained in xref:explanation/differences-to-public.adoc[this page], not all options in this screen are available in {product}. In particular, it's not possible to choose the "Import from Git" option, as this requires image building capabilities that aren't yet available in {product}.

. In the "Image name from external registry" field, enter the URL of the Fortune in Java container:
** `registry.gitlab.com/vshn/applications/fortune-java:latest`

> . Change the runtime icon to match the Java programming language or the Quarkus Framework (if available).

Reviewer: Why "If available"? I'd argue that on APPUiO Cloud a consistent behavior is expected...

Author: Because Red Hat hasn't provided icons for _all_ programming languages and frameworks out there. But I'll change that to a nicer phrasing.

. Click "Create."
. After a few seconds, you will see in the "Topology" section an icon representing the "Fortune in Java" application running. If you click on it, you will see that there is a "Route" to access the object; it will contain a clickable URL similar to the following:

> ** `fortune-java-fortune-java.apps.[YOUR_PREFERRED_ZONE].appuio.cloud`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `fortune-java-fortune-java.apps.[YOUR_CHOSEN_ZONE].appuio.cloud`
```

Maybe better? You've already chosen a zone to do your trial...

. If you click on it, you will see your daily fortune cookie message!

== Step 2: There's no Step 2!

The "Fortune in  Java" application is now running on {product}. Congratulations!

What's next? To run your own application written in Java or using the Quarkus Framework on {product}, follow these steps:

* Check the xref:tutorials/getting-started/java-terminal.adoc[Getting Started with Java on the Terminal] guide for more technical information.

> * Make sure your CI/CD system is ready to automatically deploy your application to your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure your CI/CD system is ready to automatically deploy your application to your prefered {zone}.
```
